I'm not one of those people like you've
got to be here for 10 years or you got
to be here for 25 years, you know. I'm
like, are you here? Are you planning to
stay? Then you're a New Yorker.
>> I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today.
We're live.
A few weeks ago, we did our first ever
live show at the Tribeca Festival and I
thought what could we talk about in
front of a bunch of New Yorkers that
would be interesting to them?
>> [laughter]
>> And I was like, New York movies. Movies
about New York City. There are so many
of them.
And they are a range of geographies,
architectures, personalities, fashion,
language across, you know, many decades.
And
I [clears throat] wanted to talk to
somebody who
really is conversant in all of that
range. Somebody who can talk about what
it means to make work about New York
City, what it means to watch work about
New York, but who is also herself a
great New Yorker. And so, my guest for
that conversation about New York City
movies is Cynthia Nixon. Yes.
Sex in the City [music] Cynthia Nixon.
>> Elaborate.
>> And Just Like That Cynthia Nixon.
>> You guys are sweet drinking this
non-alcoholic with me.
>> The Gilded Age Cynthia Nixon.
>> You make me feel as if I were 16 again.
>> Could have been our governor Cynthia
Nixon. She is
>> [laughter]
>> She's the the epitome of a very
particular,
very wonderful type of New Yorker. So,
here is our conversation about New York
City films on stage at the Tribeca
Festival in, of course, New York City.
>> CANNONBALL WITH WESLEY MORRIS. LET'S
GIVE IT UP.
>> [applause]
[cheering]
>> UH, WELCOME TO CANNONBALL, CYNTHIA
NIXON.
>> Thank you, Wesley Morris.
>> Um,
first of all,
can't we just talk about you as a New
Yorker? You were born here?
>> Yes.
>> Um,
what does that mean?
What does it mean to be a New Yorker to
you?
>> You know, my dad Neither of my parents
were born here. My mother was born in
Chicago and my dad was born in
Harlingen, Texas. And my dad's my dad
They both loved New York so much and my
dad said,
"As strange or surprising as this might
sound, Texas and New York have a lot in
common. One is that they're places that,
you know, both really desperately want
to secede from the rest of the country.
[laughter]
And one is there are places where
individuality and eccentricity are
really nurtured and uh, you know, uh,
adored, what what worshipped.
>> Celebrated, yeah.
>> Celebrated. But the other thing is that
New York is like the head of the list.
Like it trumps your your profession or
your class or your ethnicity or your
race or your religion or
>> Oh my god, it's too early for tears,
Cynthia, but
>> [laughter]
>> Like I'm a New Yorker, right? I'm a
Texan, right? So,
um, to to be a a native New Yorker, I
mean, to me, there are obviously as many
kinds of New Yorker as there are as many
New Yorkers.
But to me, New York is always about the
energy and the grit.
>> Mhm.
>> And it's about, you know,
growing up here, you know, I have I have
three children, I've raised them all
here and it's like as opposed to being,
you know, growing up in a rural area or
growing up in a suburban area where
you're constantly in a a city a car
bubble, right?
>> Oh, I like this. I like this.
>> Right, it New York is all about walking
down the street or being on a train
subway and
you're constantly interacting, if not
just
maybe only with your eyes, but it often
more than that with all the people that
you meet. And so
you know, so often
you meet kids from other places and they
don't even realize they're being
addressed.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> New York kids, [laughter] they're always
like right there and they have their
opinions and they just they've never
understood, they've never heard of the
idea of a kids table.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> they're just in the swim.
>> Mhm.
>> So to me that's that's New York. And and
just the the grittiness of like fending
for yourself as you're walking down the
street.
>> When do people who aren't from here
become New Yorkers? Do you have a
philosophy about that? I'm a
Philadelphian
and there's a lot of me that and I lived
in Boston for 13 years. If you boo,
don't don't bring that.
It's not what we're doing tonight. Let's
go Knicks.
Uh
I
I really struggle with when to call
myself one and I I's like a you know,
I'm from Philadelphia and the same
filtering I have to do to remember how
to say the the device that heats your
home
um which is most people say radiator.
I'm as a Philadelphian, I say radiator.
Radiator.
Uh and I have to stop myself every time
I say that word to remember
>> is from the Midwest and she had to stop
herself from saying warsh
>> Yeah. I mean,
water, water.
Uh
so I I I there are moments my first day
when I moved back here in 2013,
I saw a horrendous car accident in Fort
Greene, Brooklyn that killed a child and
we all the people who were on that inner
at at that intersection sprang into
action to help and save who we could
help and save.
>> Yeah.
>> And that was like my first week here
looking for an apartment.
And that was a moment where I'm like, I
think this
I feel like I'm with these people. Cuz
whatever that energy is that I didn't
even know I had. I didn't know I was a
spring-into-action kind of person. That
feels like New York energy to me.
>> Yeah. I mean, my my wife always makes
fun of me that I'm I I I I I scour the
streets for people who are obviously
lost and approach [laughter] them and
ask if I can't please give them
directions. And you know, New Yorkers, I
think it's sort of fading now, but New
Yorkers always have this um reputation
for being unfriendly. I don't think
we're unfriendly at all.
>> I'm from Philadelphia.
>> we're late. We're busy. We're in a rush.
But we will stop and and help you. And
we we're just not going to say like,
"How are you? How's your day?" We're
going to be like,
>> Keep it moving.
>> know what train you know what [laughter]
train you're waiting for?" You know.
>> Do you Okay, so this is how I feel like
I'm comfortable saying I'm a New Yorker
is that
um I I also look for people to help show
where to go.
>> Yeah.
>> And then [clears throat] when I see them
not do it, I don't know if you do this.
>> [laughter]
>> I run back to them and I'm like, "Why
are you going this way?
I just told you where to go." [laughter]
And they're just like willfully going
the wrong way.
>> Some people you can't help.
>> [laughter]
>> But we try.
>> I don't think Yeah, I'm not one of those
people like you've got to be here for 10
years or you've got to be here for 20
year 5 years, you know. I'm like, "Are
you here? Are you planning to stay? Then
you're a New Yorker."
>> Okay.
I like that.
Um okay, so
we're talking about works of art
about New York, set in New York. Um
>> And hopefully, God willing, filmed in
New York. At least partly.
>> case, filmed in New York.
>> At least partly.
>> As far as we know, film all three of
these works are filmed. I'm talking
about movies to be specific. You chose
two movies and I chose a movie.
And I'm You chose Breakfast at Tiffany's
and The Taking of Pelham 123.
Uh two of the great films about New York
City. Why did you choose these two?
>> You know, you always want to go for the
grit, right? You always want to go for,
you know, Midnight Cowboy and Taxi
Driver and The Panic in Needle Park and
Do the Right Thing, right? All the But
you want to
you know, so I was like I I knew I was
going to choose The Taking of Pelham 123
because it is literally my favorite
movie.
>> Mhm. Mhm.
>> And then um I was like I got to go the
other way. And you know, Breakfast at
Tiffany's, you know, Holly Golightly has
never heard that there was a subway in
New York.
>> This is what I wanted to talk about,
right? Because these two movies are
they're kind of talking to each other in
some interesting ways.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
>> Martin Balsam is in both of them.
>> in both of the movies.
>> And and also I just will say, you know,
I don't think we would have a Sex and
the City if we did not have a Breakfast
at Tiffany's.
>> That's Yes, that's also probably true.
>> many overt and slightly more nuanced
references, you know.
>> In the series to this movie.
>> In the series to this movie, yes.
>> Um well, let's start with Breakfast at
Tiffany's then. Uh 1961, Blake Edwards.
>> Blake Edwards, right?
>> Blake Edwards.
>> He did a great job.
>> Um Blake Edwards, you know, I'm a I'm a
cannon person. The show was called
Cannonball. We wanted We wanted one end,
but you know, that we work for the New
York Times. Afraid of typos.
Afraid of being accused of typos, but
Blake Edwards
maybe the least properly rated American
director we have.
>> job with this movie.
>> And I had not seen this since I
personally fell in love with Blake
Edwards. This was like a Blake Edwards
movie I didn't watch. And he is for
people who Blake Edwards did um
The Pink Panther,
uh Victor/Victoria,
um
10, the you know
>> He's married to was married to Julie
Andrews.
>> yes. Um one of our great directors. And
one of the things that makes him great
isn't Breakfast at Tiffany's, which is
party scenes.
>> Right.
>> The man is the king of one of my
favorite
movie ideas, which is a big long party
sequence.
And this movie has a great one.
>> Yeah, it's like 12 minutes long or 15
minutes long or something. It's crazy.
>> And a lot of things happen. There are a
lot of sight gags and things that happen
in the foreground and the background
simultaneously.
Um but talk to me about your
relationship with this movie.
When did you first see it?
>> I I'm sure I was a little girl and my
mother, you know, showed it to me and I
loved Audrey Hepburn and so glamorous
and so winning.
Um
and I and I I I don't know the whole
every every part of it um sort of
captured me. But when I was
um you know, the the fantasy of it
>> Mhm.
>> the the glamour. And I think it's
interesting
you know, the the other two movies that
we're going to talk about are about New
Yorkers, people who live in New York and
have always lived in New York. But so
much of the glamour
arguably, you know, most of the glamour
of New York City comes from non-native
New Yorkers, right?
>> Yes. Yes. And you know, Holly is not I
mean there are all these people who who
flock here and make you Truman Capote
and make New York more fabulous than it
ever was because it's in their minds
eye.
>> And it's it's the fantasy of yourself in
the fantasy of this place, right?
>> Right.
>> You know, this movie is based on a
Truman Capote short novel
and it's wildly different from the thing
he wrote.
>> It is and it isn't.
>> Right right right right right. I think
that one of the things that I love
movies adapted from works that you know,
because it's a Hollywood production just
will not be doing the following
>> he will not be gay. He will not be gay
in the movie.
>> And I think that those adaptations wind
up finding something else that is true
in the source material.
>> Mhm.
>> And this movie to me is still about
remaking yourself and being outed as
being something other than what you
>> Being a phony. Being a phony.
>> Right. Um and this is a movie about a
woman from Texas. She's escaped a
marriage that she probably she
definitely should never have been in.
>> Right.
>> Um comes to New York
to to flee that and then the past
catches up with her and there is this
dark undercurrent happening throughout
this movie. And I think it doesn't get
enough credit for its darkness in some
ways because
you know, it's got one of our great
movie star performances and Audrey
Hepburn who who also is not afraid of
what is dark about this film.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
>> I mean certainly when when her brother
when she gets the telegram that her
brother has died, I mean it's just
right. It's just devastating.
>> moment that I actually you know, I I was
going to say I was we were talking
backstage that I wanted to thank you for
making me rewatch these films because
you know, I had seen both of them you
know, I'd seen taking Pelham 123 fairly
recently, but Breakfast at Tiffany's I
hadn't watched since I was a teenager.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so, thanks for that. Um we got a
clip. I want to I we got some clips from
each movie.
Uh my movie, by the way, is The Wiz. I
just want to throw that out there.
Um
so, this is this is a this is a scene
from Breakfast at Tiffany's.
Um
I believe this is the scene where um
she and George Audrey Hepburn and George
Peppard, Holly and Paul
>> Uh
>> Uh they do her favorite thing on a day
that you know, they they
>> They They take turns each doing
something great that neither of them has
ever done before.
>> Yes, in New York City.
>> And I'll I'll just say, you know, cuz
when I watched it again, I was really
scrutinizing what's done in the studio
and what's done in New York City. And
it's all of the interior scenes, mostly
Holly's apartment and uh Fred/Paul's
apartment, are in a studio, except they
bother to actually, cuz I looked it up,
film this scene in Tiffany's in
Tiffany's.
>> Yeah, so that So, let Can we start that
clip?
>> We could have something engraved,
couldn't we?
>> Yes, I suppose so.
Yes, indeed.
Uh the only problem is you would more or
less have to buy something first, if
only in order to have some object upon
which to place the engraving.
>> So, this in this scene,
uh they're kind of playing a little part
of their adventure is you know, they're
dressed kind of fancily today.
They know that they're not going to buy
anything from Tiffany cuz, you know,
they're they're for these purposes,
they're broke.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, the
we could have this engraved, couldn't
we?
I think it would be very smart.
>> This uh ticket was not purchased at
Tiffany's.
>> No.
Actually, it was purchased concurrent
with uh
well, actually came inside of
well, a box of Cracker Jack.
>> I see.
>> This sales guy
is to me like a like a great New Yorker
in some ways because he's he knows he's
not going to make a sale, but he still
wants to accommodate these people.
>> Do they still really have prizes in
Cracker Jack boxes?
Oh, yes.
It's nice to know.
It gives one a feeling of solidarity.
Almost of continuity with the past, that
sort of thing.
>> Do you think Tiffany's would really
engrave it for us?
>> One of my favorite things about this
movie that I don't know I don't know if
I had
I definitely wouldn't have noticed it
when I was 15, but there's a real
fidelity in that sequence to coordinate
as often as possible with the New York
State colors.
So, in that scene we just watched, she's
wearing an orange coat.
And they're coordinate I was taking a
lot of screenshots of or like with my
phone just of my television as I watched
this. There's a lot of blue, white, and
orange just in this sequence, this
fantasy sequence where they are enjoying
being in New York in each other's New
York's. And it just stands out in an
interesting way. Um
Pelham 123.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> My absolute favorite movie.
>> movie, Tiffany?
>> my favorite movie of all time.
>> did you see it and what happened to you
the first time you watched it? Because
this is a movie that really does happen
to you no matter when you watch it. Have
you guys seen this movie? Claudia, have
you seen the taking the original one,
not the Denzel Travolta one? Don't clap
for that.
Sorry, Denzel and Travolta.
>> Yeah, I saw it when I was a kid and then
I've seen it, I don't know, a dozen
times since or something and I just
reshowed it to my son who I showed it to
when he was young, but he's now
it's like a it it it warms a mother's
heart. I've been trying to get get him
to catch subway fever and he has it now.
He's like, "I can get anywhere in the
city." [laughter]
And he talks to me about the kinds of
trains and the years they came out like
yeah. But it so so I mean
>> We should just say the plot of this
movie is essentially a heist takes
place.
>> get onto a subway.
>> And they separate one car from the rest
of the train.
>> car.
>> And there are like 20 or so passengers
who become their hostages and they need
a million dollars to be delivered to
them in small unmarked bills within an
hour or they'll start shooting hostages.
I think like one a minute or something.
>> a minute until they get the money. And
one of the things I love about this
movie is there are so many different
factions here trying to solve this
problem. So you've got the mayor who's
useless.
>> Right.
>> A like literally physically disgusting
human being cuz he's sick and sneezing
and
>> And whining. He's just whining.
>> Um
and you've got the the the police
department and the MTA. And like the
question is what
>> And you've got the you've got the city
cops and the train cops, right?
>> the hero of this movie is Well, I mean
New York's the hero of the movie. But
the sort of the hood ornament, the sort
of the avatar for New Yorkness here
um is Walter Matthau as the lieutenant
trying to figure out how to get the
money, how whether to pay the money
Well, once the decision is made to pay
the money, how to get the money to
the the train. And then
amazingly
>> how to make sure no hostages are killed
and how to try and figure out how to
beat them at their own game. How are
they planning to escape once they have
the money? They're underground with cops
everywhere.
>> Yeah, so he's doing a series of
sluthings while also, you know, trying
to save lives. And so, there's this a
scene, I believe, between um
Walter Matthau's character and Robert
Shaw, who is the head heistman.
>> Hey common, I wish I was listening to
144.
>> Command center calling Pelham 123.
>> Hey Frank, you're hogging all my
seconds.
>> What do you want from me? I got Motorman
calling me from all over the line.
>> Well, tell him to shut up, get off the
air, and eat some all line jokes in
here.
>> The way that that that that character,
who's sitting behind Matthau,
>> Yeah, he's so mad cuz they've they've
shot a transit guy.
>> Yes. And
>> And he doesn't want to cooperate.
>> is negotiating to get them the money
when he wants to go in and have the the
have the police department kill
everybody.
>> Well, I never thought I'd see the day
when talking to murderers took priority
over running a railroad.
>> Get out of it, will you, Frank? My only
priority is saving the lives of these
passengers.
>> Screw the god damn passengers. What the
hell they expect for their lousy 35
cents, to live forever?
>> Oh, yeah, beautiful.
>> I mean
>> he says, "What do they want for their
lousy 50 cents, to live forever?"
>> [laughter]
>> Probably got
a lot of god damn nerve.
>> Pelham 123, any news to report?
>> What's that about news here? Say again
about news.
>> I also love this microphone because it
gives like a kind of Walter Winchell
>> a disc jockey.
>> Yeah, I mean, it's got DJ character. And
Matthau is really sort of owning the
assignment here.
>> Have you any news to report?
>> Oh, no, nothing yet.
>> Get inside.
>> What are you calling about?
>> Uh Pelham, we need more time.
>> Shut the door, please. Come in.
>> It is 2:24, Lieutenant, you got 49
minutes left.
>> Be reasonable, will you? We're trying to
cooperate with you, but we can't do
anything if you don't give us enough
time to work with.
>> If anybody really wants to know what a
movie star is,
they can come in all shapes and forms,
>> including Walter Matthau
>> including Walter Matthau, great New
Yorker.
But do you remember I mean I know you
know the last shot of this movie.
>> Yeah.
>> The last shot of this movie
is is is what a movie star is and can
do.
>> Mhm.
>> Um you don't need words.
>> [laughter]
>> You don't need anything other than a
person who you know mostly because
you've been watching him build this
character. You know this guy He knows
this guy and you know this guy from the
first time you see him.
He's going to solve the case and his
It's not even a sense of justice. It's
just like you don't do this here.
>> Right.
>> You don't get away with with with crime
here.
>> Right.
>> And that when he I mean I'm not going to
ruin the movie for you guys, but like he
opens a door and just gives a facial
expression. That's the last thing you
see in this movie and it is it's just
exquisite.
>> Right. And And I I guess I am going to
move ruin the movie for you guys.
>> [laughter]
>> But the you know, there is a person who
sneezes and has a cold and everybody is
constantly saying gesundheit to this guy
when he sneezes.
>> So I It's been set up so beautifully. I
had forgotten about this in the script.
>> Oh Yeah. Yeah.
>> Sorry if we bothered you, Mr. Longo.
>> It's all right. Let's go.
>> Gesundheit.
>> Cynthia, great job. This really might be
the I always say Do the Right Thing is
the greatest New York movie. Like
there's like 10 of them and this is
definitely probably number two
because
it has every New Yorker, right? I think
you can you can see every kind of New
Yorker represented somewhat meaningfully
in this movie. Um or or a meaningful
like
section of them um working together
doing different jobs.
>> Mouth sort of, you know, struggling to
be, you know, politically correct,
politically sensitive, right? I mean, he
he blows it right away with the Japanese
people from the Tokyo Subway
immediately. But that he he's so proud
of himself cuz they keep saying there's
a cop on the train, there's a cop on the
train, but like a in plainclothes cop.
And they keep saying, "Why isn't the cop
Why isn't he doing something?" And Mouth
is like, "You don't know, it's a guy.
Maybe it's a woman. Maybe it's a woman."
And the the cop is disguised as a
hippie, so has long hair. So when the
cop finally does something and is
shot and he's okay, but he's lying there
and Walter Mouth House sees his the long
hair and he's like, "Oh, miss, let me
help you."
>> Cuz he's so convinced. [laughter]
And yet when he's dealing with the black
police chief, he's totally flummoxed cuz
he's been talking to him and he said,
"Oh, I thought you were a I don't know
what you
a taller man or something."
>> Yeah, I mean, it's it's just a it's all
the sort of subtleties in the power
dynamics are interesting here. Everybody
has brought their like upstairs politics
downstairs.
The the crew on the train, the
the hostages
>> Oh, they're so great. The drunk woman
who never wakes up till it's over.
>> There's a moment.
>> The guy I think of is the Holocaust
survivor who is just determined that the
system is is going to work and he's
going to be okay
>> light is going to come on.
I love this movie so much. Okay. Um
The film I chose I chose The Wiz.
Um I chose The Wiz because I didn't know
what your relationship you'd have with
it. I mean, I'm assuming you you've seen
it.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
This to me is another one of these great
New York movies where upon like in the
opening scene um my eyes just well up.
All three of these movies have a moment
where I'm just like
>> [laughter]
>> This is so This is such an such a this
these works love this city in different
ways and different things about the city
but but the Wiz to me just in that
opening sequence which is
>> does that? I mean who starts a movie
with the big family coming together? You
know, that's the end of most movies but
it's the beginning of this one.
>> And well the yeah and like so you get
this moment where okay
the Wiz
for all who don't know adapted from the
Wizard of Oz. It's a musical. There are
black people everywhere.
>> There are only black people.
>> Just period.
And it understands this is another one
of those adaptations that you know if
you've read Frank Baum's original work
not and you know the sort of world he
built around us. These books are
political tracks. They are really
thinking about what socialism, fascism,
capitalism, industrialism
>> the gold standard right?
>> Everything is sort of converging in
Baum's storytelling. And so to have this
movie come out in 1978
directed by I mean I don't know where
you stand on this Cynthia like the
greatest New York City filmmaker.
>> Sorry Marty. Sorry Spike. Sorry Woody.
>> Like Sidney Lumet you know made those
guys careers possible in some ways and
the chances they could take telling
stories about New York.
>> And he's also Lena Horne's son-in-law
which helps you know.
>> get Lena Horne to play Glenda the good
witch? Um
I just feel like there is such an
understanding of what it means to to
tell the the Frank Baum story
of the Wizard of Oz. Um
Or what becomes the Wizard of Oz.
>> so much of the a different version of
the politics that's in the book that's
not in the Hollywood
>> Yes.
>> original movie.
>> This to me has a very quiet politics.
And essentially what happens is Diana
Ross um plays Dorothy, but doesn't play
her as a schoolgirl. It's She's a school
teacher.
>> Brilliant.
>> And she's probably depressed. She's
definitely socially awkward. And her
family at this big Thanksgiving dinner
is
just like
it's not about Dorothy in this moment,
but there is a real warmth that she
feels alienated somehow.
>> Everybody's living their lives and
unlike in the original, she's a shut-in
basically. She's never been south of
125th Street. She teaches kindergarten.
>> Parenthetically, can I ask you a New
Yorker question?
>> Yeah.
>> The address that she says she lives at
once she gets to Oz Dorothy is like
Prospect Place.
I mean, we're talking Crown Heights.
>> That's Brooklyn. That's Brooklyn. That's
not Harlem.
>> So, I'm just pointing that out. Sydney
just saying.
I don't think Spike would have made that
mistake.
>> [laughter]
>> Just saying.
But that's the address.
>> but everybody else that watched that
happening. [laughter] What's going on?
>> Um so, she the tornado takes her This is
like this hurricane, sorry, this
blizzard, right, takes her to Oz.
>> I guess it's supposed to be
metaphorical. Like what are her
prospects?
>> Right.
>> I But it's a bad choice. It's a bad
choice.
>> Lands her on this playground in this
newly reimagined
New York City.
And the first like sign of Now, I saw
this movie
when I was It first showed on TV, I
believe, in 1980. I had to watch the
first broadcast of this thing.
And I'll never forget what happens when
she gets to Oz and the graffiti comes to
life.
>> Comes out of the wall.
>> And just starts like walking around and
saying, "Toto, Toto, Toto." It is a
terrifying sound to a kid, and even
today I still have access to that fear.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> And and the parks commissioner has
imprisoned them for graffitiing.
>> Yes, and turned them into graffiti.
>> Right.
>> So, one of the things that's wonderful
about it as a New York movie is the way
that it imagines the from 2D
representations of the city um a kind of
three-dimensionality despite, you know,
you're looking what you're looking at
being a set. So, this is the mean old
lion moment. This is Diana Ross, Nipsey
Russell, and Michael Jackson.
>> Made of stone, see?
>> Michael is really good in this, I just
want to say. They're all really
wonderful.
>> This is Ted Ross,
>> who won a Tony for it on stage.
>> [music]
[music]
>> But I just love that this is taking
place in front of the New York Public
Library.
>> [laughter]
[music and singing]
>> And the whole movie is just doing stuff
like this.
Um how do we reimagine New York?
Um
>> Crossing bridges, and right the the sun
comes up and it's an apple.
>> The colors are so bright, but you know,
do you Where were Do you remember the
first time you saw this?
>> I mean, I was I was a little kid, and
you know, it's it it's a great movie,
but it's slow.
>> Mhm.
>> And I just remember it felt like it was
like 3 and 1/2 hours. Right?
It's really like it's so emotional, but
it's also just really slow to start.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> And I remember being really um I thought
that you know
I remember being really scared of those
those munching uh garbage cans in the
subway.
>> sequence is
is like John Carpenter Wes Craven level
terrifying.
>> Really scary.
>> Um George Romero is really what I'm what
I'm That's the name I'm trying to come
up with.
Um
because you know I had never been to New
York at this point in my life.
>> Oh, right.
>> Um like 1980 maybe I have no memory. So
every subsequent New York experience I
had had been informed by my experience
with this movie and
>> Mhm.
>> you know you go down I mean I think I
don't Was that filmed at
Hoyt-Schermerhorn? I can't remember
where they did it.
>> Yes. Yeah. It was.
>> Uh the Hoyt-Schermerhorn subway station
also the scene of the crime for the
music video Bad.
Um Martin Scorsese's Bad by the way.
Just but still you know that video.
>> [laughter]
>> Um
>> But Nipsey Russell in Coney Island is so
amazing.
>> whole thing is inspired.
>> And and the and when they find you know
the crows and they find Michael Jackson
up on the thing and it's like I don't
know it looks like the South Bronx or
something completely burned out and
nothing is one building and nothing else
as far as you can see.
>> So this movie comes out uh 1978
the year after the blackout of '77.
>> Mhm.
>> And
it's not really addressing the blackout
per se, but there's something about this
version of New York that it's depicting
that is also poised somewhere between
the sort of blighted urban nightmare
that you were seeing in movies like
French Connection, you know, Shaft,
um you know, some of my favorite uh
blaxploitation movies like Hell Up in
Harlem and Black Caesar. Um you know,
where those chase sequences would end in
like an alleyway and all you can see,
you know, your whole vista is just
bombed-out buildings. I think that the
fantasy of this movie is that there can
be something else to it. And that
there's a force that is
responsible for all that fear and
uncertainty and it is essentially
flushed away. Now,
>> Mhm.
>> you know, the politics of the I mean
there's all kinds of things with The Wiz
that kind of get on my nerves. Diana
Ross allegedly being too old to play
Dorothy. Only for you Judy Garland
queens.
>> Mhm.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean like I think it's brilliant to
have
>> It's brilliant.
>> a Was she 35 at that point? To have a
you know, a a a
a young older woman
>> Everybody's afraid
>> it happens to you.
is all I will say.
>> Everybody's afraid she's going to be an
old maid. That's what they're afraid of.
>> And
I you know, but what they talked about
when this movie came out was like this
is a vanity project for her.
She She
>> so She is so I mean we thought Judy
Garland cried a lot. I mean Diana Ross
is just devastated and terrified for
two-thirds of this movie. And then at
the end singing home which is tears and
tears and tears.
>> She was going through something
in the making of this movie. I don't
know I mean but she's committed to this
part in a way that is not vain to me.
This is there's no vanity in this
performance at all. It's complete
investment. Um
>> And you feel like she
you know, she mothers every single
person that she comes across.
>> Yeah, there's just anyway. Um Cynthia, I
want to say very quickly
thank you for doing this.
And um
It just really means a lot that you have
stayed in this city.
That you have tried to save us. You
tried to save us once
>> [laughter]
>> from what happened what happened
because
there were a few moments in 2020 where I
was like, well, you know,
>> [laughter]
>> this would have gone a lot
differently
in somebody else's hands.
And those hands are sitting right here.
So,
Cynthia Nixon, thank you very much.
>> Thank you. Was there
>> a lot that you came to do this and thank
you for giving me back
Breakfast at Tiffany's and taking a
Pelham 123.
>> you. I'm such a fan of you. I'm such a
fan of the podcast and it was really a
thrill to be here.
>> Thank you. It's an honor.
Um
>> [applause]
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for coming. Thanks for
supporting the show and supporting
Cynthia Nixon and the Tribeca Festival.
Thank you so much.
>> [music]